Welcome back everyone.
Let's get started by learning how to use a conversational neural network on custom images.
Essentially your own PMG or JPEG files.
In part one of these series of lectures we're going to focus on just understanding what our data looks
like and how to set the file paths for our data.
Let's get started.
All right.
In the previous lecture we imported OS set up our data directory and upon calling the list directory
from the data directory.
You should have seen that there's a test folder and a train folder.
So what we're gonna do after this is we're gonna exploit this further.
But first I'm going to copy and paste a couple of imports from our notebook.
The first being pandas as PD num PIs MP Seabourn as S.A. and then Matt Paul lived up pi plot as BLT.
Now we've already seen all those imports before but there's a new one that we're going to use to actually
read in real image files and it's called from map plot lib.
So from Matt plot lib dot image not that pipeline.
Go ahead an import.
I am read.
So this is going to allow us to read an image files directly.
So we already know that we have a test set and a training set inside of this.
Let's go ahead and set two variables we'll call one the test path which is my data directory and then
I'm just going to concatenate as a string and I'm using double backslash here because I'm on windows
and I'm going to add in that test directory and then I'll create a training path and state that my data
directory plus and in this case again double backslash is here on test train and whips.
It's going to be data directory not my data directory.
Okay perfect.
So if we take a look at test path then and redshift enter it's essentially the file path to the test
set.
So let's go ahead and list what files are inside by saying OS that list directory and we'll go ahead
and pass in our test path run that you'll notice there's parasite versus uninfected.
And basically what we're looking at here is a data set that contains two folders.
Originally it contains an infected folder and an uninfected folder.
This is already been split up and test train for you.
And it contains a total of about twenty seven thousand images and the state asset is taken from a government
repository on malaria data sets.
So there's a National Library of Medicine and the link is in the notebook for you in the notebook that
goes along with this lecture.
You can check out the full publication and the datasets here.
They have a cell's images that zip.
It's available from NIH so you can check out the full details here.
But essentially it's just images of whether or not a cell has been infected with malaria so we're gonna
come back here and notice we have essentially a sub folder underneath test for images where the cell
has been infected and one for we're not infected and we can do the same for the training path and it's
going to have essentially the same set of categories.
So we're going to end up doing is attempting to build a model that just based off the image of a cell
can predict whether or not it's infected or not infected.
In theory this could hopefully save real doctors a lot of time by just running images into our model
instead of having to manually look at these images themselves and determinant.
So what we're gonna do is just take a look at a single image.
So we're going to say OS list directory and let's go ahead and do the following we'll say from our training
path go ahead and concatenate the well we'll look at one that has the parasite so say plus that run
it and you'll see a list of all the image files.
So here's one at PSG file cell 162 163 and so on.
So there's thousands of images here.
Let's go ahead and basically this function just listed all the images.
Let's just grab the first one of this list so if you notice here I now have this PMG file and what I
need to do is basically tell the image read function where this file actually is so this parasite cell
or infected cell.
I'll say parasail is equal to and we'll say train path Plus Paris ties there.
Plus and then to make sure everything works will add two sets of backslash as they're there should essentially
slashes between all the file names or all the directories and then add that there.
So if I take a look at parasol just individually after running this all I'm trying to say is that this
parasol is essentially the entire file path to a single image which means I can then use the image read
function that we imported.
So go ahead Emery parasol and it automatically transforms a PSG file into an array for you.
And if we check out the shape of this you'll notice that this particular image is one forty eight by
one free two by three which means it's a color image.
Let's go ahead and explore what it actually looks like.
So we'll say PDT and now I can say image show this image read call run that and this is what a cell
looks like when it has the infection the parasite and you can see there's this little dark infected
essentially area.
Let's go ahead and do the same for an uninfected cell and see what it looks like.
So I'll say my uninfected cell is equal to and in this case will say train path plus and we also need
to say uninfected backslash backslash and I need to grab just one single image from this.
So I'll use the same approach as we did last time we'll say OS list directory and inside the training
path go ahead and grab from uninfected so I can just say grab from an infected here pass that in and
let me split this up so you can see what this returns.
So recall wipes on infected should have an end there.
Go ahead and run that that list all the image files inside the uninfected folder inside my training
path.
Just grab one of them.
And now we have that name right there.
So grab that or just grab this and then paste it so you can either do that or just grab the rostering
itself.
Either way this matter is going to be the same code essentially the same string.
And so now we have the file path to an uninfected cell.
So that's a complete file path to an unaffected cell.
Let's go ahead and read it in.
So I'll say my uninfected cell is equal to image read and then we'll say uninfected cell.
And now my uninfected cells that array called P.L. t image show here and this is an uninfected healthy
cell.
The difference should be quite obvious.
Notice there's kind of a dark indication here of the infection and the uninfected look essentially quote
unquote normal.
They're just kind of this pink.
They don't have this dark stain.
OK.
So a big part of this is just understanding the file parts on your computer and you can always understand
the file parts as we discussed in the panel section if you type TWD that lists the current location
where you're at on your computer inside this notebook.
OK so let's go ahead and check how many images there are lots of different ways we can do this.
But one way is we can say OS that list directory get our training path and then let's go ahead and check
out how many parasite versions do we have and then also constantly make sure to check your spelling
here and then check the length of this.
So it looks like inside the training folder we have twelve thousand four hundred eighty examples of
infected cells or parasitic cells.
And then the lengthier will say list directory again on the training path.
Except this time let's look at uninfected we'll say uninfected.
Check the link there.
So it's the same amount.
So we have the same amount of energy images as uninfected versus parasite cells inside our train paths
and we could take the same look for our test paths.
So there's one thousand three hundred images of parasite cells under the test set.
And if we take a look at the test set as well there's one thousand three hundred uninfected.
OK.
So we have the same amount of instances per class which is nice.
So we can go ahead and combat these out now and let's go ahead and finally figure out the average shape
of one of these images.
Something to note here is since these are real image files it's unlikely that they're all going to be
the exact same shape.
Previously we didn't have to worry about that because we were reading and datasets like the m this dataset
the safari tent data set and every image happened to be the same dimensions real life images are not
going to be that way.
They're going to have different dimensions.
So lots different ways we can do this.
But one way is to set up two lists.
Call one dim one for dimensions and the other one dim too.
So that mentions one and 2.
And what we're going to do is the following command I'll say for image file name in and I'm just going
to look at let's say our test images will say an OS list directory underneath the test path.
Take a look at the uninfected
so grab those uninfected images and then go ahead and read in that file as an array say image is equal
to image read.
And in this case we'll say the test path plus uninfected.
Make sure you spell that right backslash backslash plus the actual image file name so we're call OS
thoughtless directory a test path uninfected.
If I take a look at what that returns essentially what I'm actually iterating through I'm iterating
through each of these files.
So go ahead and grab that file.
But in order to actually do the image read I need the pass in the full file name.
OK.
That allows this cell to run from any directory no matter where you're located on your computer.
So I'm reading in all these files so I'm reading in all these images and then what I'm going to do is
I will check the image shape.
Recall that the image shape is a tuple of three dimensions its dimension one dimension to so width and
height and then the colors dimension which is going to be three for all of them.
There's three color channels for all of them.
So now I'm going to do is say dimensions one append the D one value and dimensions to append D to value
make sure get rid of the s there.
So all I'm doing is I'm iterating through every file and by chance the test path uninfected.
So that is going to be thirteen hundred files then I'm going to check the shape of each of them and
then save their first I mentioned and their second dimension.
Let's go ahead and run this.
Keep in mind that you should triple check the file parts here and make sure everything is correct and
after that you should be able to check one of these.
And it has a bunch of dimensions in it.
Notice they are all different.
So these are real image files which means they're not all going to be the same dimensions that are all
the same shape same four dimensions too.
And to see basically a histogram of both we can say S.A. joint plot I mentioned one dimension too and
we get something that looks like this.
So I can see the various dimensions we have a really small image that's like 50 by 60 and a really large
image over here that's around two hundred by two hundred.
OK.
So why is this important.
Well the convolution neural network isn't going to be able to train on images of various sizes.
So what I need to do is I need to make sure that I'm going to resize all these images to be the same
size.
So I have to choose what actual dimensions should I resize everything to.
And what you should choose is essentially the average of both dimensions.
And this shows you the actual distribution of the images and they all kind of center around basically
130 by 130 and you can confirm this by checking out the mean values in your dimensions.
So can say the mean of them one and the mean of them two.
So what I'm going to do is I will say my final image shape that I will be feeding in my convolution
on your own network is 130 by 130 by three.
Go ahead and run that.
And then later on or actually preparing the data for the model I'll resize everything to these dimensions.
So if it's a smaller photo I basically can add padding so that it reaches these dimensions and if it's
a larger photo I can either crop or shrink it down.
OK so a big part of this lecture is understanding file parts.
Please make sure to review the input and output lectures in pandas.
If you're still confused on file parts on your computer and again please keep in mind if you're posting
questions about your file parts is that I won't have access to your computer so I can't really see what
you're saving your files.
We should be able to do is once you actually set up this line of data directory you should be able to
run our notebooks and everything should work.
The only thing you really need to edit is this singular line right here.
Again yours isn't going to be the same as mine because you're not on my computer.
All right.
So a lot of file parts here.
And being able to read in real image data that's all we need to cover for this lecture.
Coming up next we're going to show you how to use the image data generator to both perform image manipulation
and then generate batches from real image files.
We'll see you there.